Intro to docker
---

### • Intro to docker concepts

Docker is a powerful tool, and is worth learning fully - however, scarab abstracts much of the docker workflow for you, so that anyone working on a scarab app will use docker in the same way.

Official documentation links:

- [Dockerfile](https://docs.docker.com/engine/reference/builder/)
- [docker cli](https://docs.docker.com/engine/reference/commandline/cli/)
- [docker-compose.yml](https://docs.docker.com/compose/compose-file/)
- [docker-compose cli](https://docs.docker.com/compose/reference/docker-compose/)

#### Dockerfile

One piece that is important to us is the `Dockerfile`. The `Dockerfile` is used to tell docker everything we need to be installed before our application can be run in a completely new environment. Scarab apps all use the `node:wheezy` docker image as the base for our Dockerfiles.

The `node:wheezy` is a premade debian wheezy image that includes the latest node. This means that `node` and `npm` will automatically be available to us, as well as some basic tools (like `curl`) that come with a wheezy base install.

The initial Dockerfile used by scarab apps just creates a `/usr/src/app` folder, installs dependencies, and runs `npm start`.

> An important note is that we avoid installing dependencies that will be deployed separately, like databases or microservices. Instead of adding them as direct dependencies, we'll connect to them via TCP using the docker-compose `links` functionality (see below).

#### `docker`

The `docker` command is where most of the core `docker` functionality can be accessed. However, outside of the `docker images` command, it is rarely used directly when working with scarab.

### • Intro to docker-compose

`docker-compose` is an orchestration tool used by docker for linking multiple docker images together, and inheriting functionality from other docker images without creating a Dockerfile.

`scarab` uses docker-compose heavily to allow running microservices and extending the base scarab app.

`docker-compose` looks for a file called `docker-compose.yml`, which is a yaml file with basic overrides and directions for creating docker images.

A basic docker-compose file looks something like this:

```yaml

scarab:
  build: .
  env_file: .env
  command: npm start
```

The above will build the Dockerfile in the current directory, and will set any variables in the `.env` file. It will also override the default `CMD` directive in the Dockerfile with the one specified in `command`. `docker-compose.yml` files are very powerful, but scarab also adds some functionality to them to allow us to do more than just orchestrate.

### • what scarab does differently than docker-compose

scarab introduces the ability to merge docker-compose files to create a flat file. This means that your file may define as many apps as it likes, but the `scarab` field will be provided with defaults. These defaults are inherited recursively from parent apps, until the root scarab compose file is found.

The root docker-compose file does most of the definition, and is defined as:

```yaml

scarab:
  build: .
  volumes:
    - .:/usr/src/app
  ports:
    - "80:3000"
  restart: always
  stdin_open: true
  tty: true
  domainname: socialcode.dev
  links:
    - redis
  command: node index.js
redis:
  image: redis:latest
  ports:
    - "6379:6379"
```

A child scarab app could then define it's scarab process as:

```yaml

scarab:
  command: npm run server
  links:
    - microservice
microservice:
  image: socialcode/microservice
  ports:
    - "8080:8080"
```

When running `scarab build`, `scarab start`, `scarab stop`, `scarab logs`, or `scarab compose <command>`, the `docker-compose.yml` file that would be used in the above case would look like this:

```yaml

scarab:
  build: .
  volumes:
    - .:/usr/src/app
  ports:
    - "80:3000"
  restart: always
  stdin_open: true
  tty: true
  domainname: socialcode.dev
  links:
    - redis
    - microservice
  command: npm run server
redis:
  image: redis:latest
  ports:
    - "6379:6379"
microservice:
  image: socialcode/microservice
  ports:
    - "8080:8080"
```

This allows us to extend docker-compose files with `links`, something that is not supported by docker-compose out of the box, but integral to allowing scarab apps to be composeable and modular entities.

> Because of this, you should never use `docker-compose` directly with scarab apps. Instead, use `scarab compose` with the same arguments as you would pass to `docker-compose`.
