Scarab routing
---

### • Express routing/middleware concepts

Express is a simple webserver written in node.js, which is built around the concept of "middleware".

When a request is received, express will run the request through a chain of middleware until one of them does not pass to the next.

Each middleware receives 3 arguments:

- `req`: an object containing information about the request
- `res`: an object containing information and exposing mutating functions that you can use to respond to the request
- `next`: a function that you may call to indicate that you would like to pass this request to the next handler.

When you call `require('scarab')`, the returned object is a preconfigured express app.

You can add a simple GET response by calling `scarab.get()`:

```javascript

scarab.get('/send-json', (req, res, next) => {
  res.json({ success: true })
})
```

You may add middleware without an HTTP verb by using the `.all` or `.use` methods:

```javascript

// .all, which requires a route, and is an exact match:
scarab.all('/foo', (req, res, next) => {
  // this will only respond to /foo (not /foo/bar)
  res.render('index', { foo: true })
})

// .use with a route, which will match anything _beginning_ with your route:
scarab.use('/hello', (req, res, next) => {
  // this will respond to /hello, /hello/there, /hello/post/12/comments, etc.
  res.send('hello')
})

// .use without a route, will match _all_ requests
scarab.use((req, res, next) => {
  req.middlewareMessage = 'hello from middleware'
  // this will just pass to the next middleware.
  next()
})
```

Express provides lots of helpful response methods and request parsing. For more details, look at the [express documentation](http://expressjs.com/en/4x/api.html)

### • Self contained apps

In many cases, you'll want your app to use templates or may want to do custom express configuration. If your app is only overriding values, you could just manipulate the `scarab` app, but in some cases you may want to create your own express app, so you can do things like define custom templating engines without breaking the packaged scarab engine.

Thankfully, express can mount an express app as if it were a route - so you can create your app like so:

```javascript

var scarab = module.exports = require('scarab')
var express = require('express')
var app = express()

/**
 * Your custom config would go here
 */

scarab.use('/', app)

```

All root requests will now go to app after they have successfully authenticated with scarab.

### • Proxying

If your app isn't written in node.js, it's likely that you'll just use scarab as a proxy.

To make this easy, scarab provides a `proxy` method, which will prepend a proxy route to the beginning of the middleware, mapping a local URL to a remote host.

For example:

```javascript

var scarab = module.exports = require('scarab')
scarab.proxy('/api', 'http://some-api.com/api')
```

Now all requests to `/api` will instead be routed to 'http://some-api.com/api', along with any sub routes like:

`/api/foo/bar?baz -> http://some-api.com/api/foo/bar?baz`

This will also proxy POST bodies, so you can treat local apis like remote APIs.

Under the hood, `.proxy` sets up an instance of [http-proxy](https://github.com/nodejitsu/node-http-proxy). If you like, you can pass a third argument to `.proxy` with an options object.

The options object is a [http-proxy](https://github.com/nodejitsu/node-http-proxy) config object, with a default target of the passed proxy url, and a default changeOrigin of true.

**Using with docker links**

A common use case would be to init a scarab app, then add a linked app to your docker-compose.yml file that builds the current directory. Then when scarab starts, proxy to this app.

To set up this case, your docker-compose file would look like this:

```yaml

scarab:
  links:
    - django
django:
  build: .
  ports:
    - "8000:8000"
  volumes:
    - .:/usr/src/app
```

And your `index.js` would look like this:

```javascript

var scarab = module.exports = require('scarab')
var links = require('docker-links').parseLinks(process.env)

var djangoURL = 'http://' + links.django.hostname + ':' + links.django.port
console.log(`Proxying requests to django server at ${djangoURL}`)
scarab.proxy('/', djangoURL)

if (require.main === module) scarab.serve()
```

In this example, we're using the [docker-links](https://www.npmjs.com/package/docker-links) npm package to parse the environment vars automatically for us.

When running, you can tail the logs on the django server by running `scarab logs django`, and the logs of the proxy by running `scarab logs scarab`.

To see a log for each request proxied, you can set the `DEBUG` environment to include `scarab:proxy` (for instance, `DEBUG=scarab:*` or `DEBUG=scarab:proxy`).
