Scarab extension apps
---

Because every scarab app both inherits and exposes a scarab app, apps can have inheritance chains. This allows you to focus on building your application with a very small scope, and delegating common functionality or toolchain bootstrapping to a parent app.

For example, many apps built with scarab will be single page apps, given that our microservices are friendly to them. Instead of inheriting from `scarab` directly, these apps can inherit from `scarab-spa`, which includes the authentication layer from scarab, but also adds the following:

- a lightweight JSON API for aggregation/communication between the client and external services
- browserify with babel for client side javascript compilation and module resolution
- automatic server restarts on changes via nodemon
- app-specific views and assets directories

Instead of re-creating architecture every time you create a single page app, you can init from this scarab app, and focus on the functionality of your application.

Because this architecture is recursive, you could create a scarab-react extension app that added boilerplate and/or best practices to scarab-spa, and further abstract common functionality for future react-based single page apps.

### • Creating an extension app

Extension apps are just scarab apps, so you would init a new app, and modify it to perform the functionality you expect.

The only thing scarab needs to know that an app can be extended is a package.json entry called `scarab` - this allows you to specify what files should be templated over, define sub-app dependencies, and template in common package.json fields.

To make your app an extension app, add a `scarab` field to package.json - the value should be an object, which can contain the following properties:

- `base`: the npm-compatible package name (can be a git repo) of the scarab app this app is based on
- `copy`: An array of files that should be copied to the root directory of the sub-app
- `package`: Any default package.json fields that sub-apps should contain. For instance, you can define `dependencies` or `devDependencies` inside this field.

For example:

```json

{
  "name": "my-extension-app",
  // normal package.json stuff
  "scarab": {
    "base": "jesseditson/scarab-spa",
    "copy": [
      "docker-compose.yml",
      "nodemon.json",
      "Dockerfile",
    ],
    "package": {
      "scripts": {
        "start": "nodemon -L index",
      },
      "devDependencies": {
        "nodemon": "^1.8.1"
      }
    }
  }
}
```

The above would copy the local docker-compose.yml, nodemon.json, and Dockerfile when initializing, and add a default start script and dev dependency to the sub-app.
